Welcome, in this video, we're going to synchronize our individual fork
from our parent repository. So far, what I've been referring to as the upstream
or parent repository has been the repository on "scm-ninja/starter-web".
And that's the repository from which we forked our copy of that repository,
which is found in our "jasongtaylor" account
or would be found in your account if you've been following along.
We can see that by, on our newsfeed page, we have a section
that it says repositories you contribute to, and it lists "scm-ninja/starter-web",
which gives us the option to go directly to that repository,
and if we wanted to, we could watch or star this repository.
Let's click star; this will send us notifications later
if this repository changes for some reason.
Alright, so while we're here, let's copy this GitHub repository's URL;
let's scroll down and find the cloning options for this repository,
that should be in the lower right hand side.
Change the default from HTTPS to SSH if you need to,
then click on the copy to clipboard button to copy the SSH URL to your clipboard.
Now, let's go back to our terminal. Back at the terminal, I'm in the
"starter-web" repository on my local system.
I'm currently on the feature branch we just created, in a clean working directory state.
Since I know we've merged in those changes into master in a different repository,
we can change out of this branch: "git checkout master".
Let's verify our changes on GitHub; so you'll notice that
on "scm-ninja/starter-web" we have our "README.md" file.
If I return to our version of that repository,
we do not have that Readme file in the master branch.
So, how do we synchronize our upstream repository from which we forked
down to our individual copy of our repository?
Well, unfortunately there's no direct way to do that from the GitHub interface,
so we must use our local copy as an intermediate. Let's go back to the terminal,
and back on our master branch, let's go ahead and see a list of all our remote repositories.
Type "git remote -v", "-v" is verbose,
and that will show all of our remote repository references.
When we cloned this repository, we got origin set up for free;
that is, when we used the "git clone" command, Git automatically establishes
a remote reference named origin back to where we cloned from.
In this case, our "starter-web" repository on our user account on GitHub.
We do have the ability to add more remotes that refer to
other Git repositories from which we can push and pull.
To do that, we need to use the "git remote add" command; type "git remote add",
then the name of the remote reference we wish to create.
It can be anything we want, as long as it's something that we can remember.
Since I've been referring to the upstream or parent repository
as upstream, I'm going to create the remote reference as "upstream".
Now, paste in the URL that should be in your clipboard;
command or control+v, then press enter. Now when we do "git remote -v",
it shows us we have two pairs of remote references: "origin" and "upstream".
And, technically they're listed twice, because you can have different remotes
for both the fetch and the push; however, 99% of the time they should be identical.
Now I'm going to use the "git pull" command, specifying our
"upstream" repository to fetch any updates from that master branch.
Type "git pull"; space; and then our new reference, "upstream";
space; and then master for the master branch; now press enter.
Great, now we've downloaded all the updates from the "upstream/master" repository,
and in doing so, we have our Readme file that has been added.
Now we have "README.md" file in our files that are part of the local repository,
and since our local repository has the changes that we just got from upstream,
but our individual fork of the repository on GitHub does not have that,
we need to push our changes from our local repository to our individual fork,
which is currently referenced as origin; "git push origin master",
now press enter. Great, now let's check it out on our personal fork.
Go back to our browser, and make sure that we're in our user account
on the "starter-web" repository. Now let's refresh our browser,
and if we scroll down, we should now have our "README.md" file,
and it should display at the bottom of our listing.
Super, now let's go back to our terminal, and do a little bit of cleanup.
Back on our local Git repository, if I do a "git branch -a"
I show all our branches, including local and remote branches.
I'm currently on master, which is exactly where I want to be,
and it's time to delete that feature branch.
Type "git branch -d feature-readme", and that will delete the feature branch.
Now, if you did not integrate the changes from the upstream repository
onto the master branch, then you wouldn't have the changes
from the feature branch on master, and then Git would complain
when you tried to delete the feature branch.
But, since I've already integrated those changes, Git should allow me
to delete the branch without any problems. Super, the branch has been deleted.
Now, if I type "git branch -a", I see that I only have the master branch
for my remote branches, but something's curious here;
I see that I have "remotes/origin/feature-readme".
That's a local references to our remote branch.
Let's check it out; I don't think we have that branch anymore.
If I go back, this is origin, so that's my user account on GitHub
and the "starter-web" repository. If I go to the branches dropdown, I only see master,
which is further confirmed by the branches tab showing only "1 branch".
If I click on it, I see that I only have master; so this repository definitely has only master.
But, on my local copy, it still shows that remote reference.
If you find yourself in this situation, you can fetch the latest updates
passing in the prune option: "git fetch -p", with the "-p" being the prune option.
Now press enter. Great, Git goes out to GitHub, notices that
the "feature-readme" branch has been deleted,
which then it deletes the refine to that branch.